## Goal
The main goal of this assignment is to get you a chance to get exposed to Datalog. Specifically, you will work with the [Souffle system](https://souffle-lang.github.io/index.html), which implements a form of Datalog. You will write queries, similar to the queries you wrote in A1 on the same dataset, but using Datalog instead. You should go through Souffle's documentation. 

## What to submit?
For this assignment, you will need the file under `assignments/a2/sol-tempaltes` folder. Under this folder, there is a file: `a2-sol-template.dl` file. You can base your solution on this files Copy paste this file to an `a2/sol/` folder in your private repo and rename to `a2-sol.dl`.

You should implement "query rule" `q1`, `q2`, and `q3` in `a2-sol.dl`. All you have to do is write a Cypher query inside these functions. Similarly in `a1-sol-duckdb.py`, fill the inside of `q2` and `q3` with SQL queries. After completing all the rules needed to compute the relations `q1`, `q2`, and `q3`, and you run the program using: `souffle -Fdata -Doutput a2-sol.dl`, you should get 3 files `q1.csv`, `q2.csv`, and `q3.csv`.

When reviewing your solutions, I will read your rules and run your programs by the same command. You will be marked on the correctness or close to correctness of your program and not just the outputs.

### Other helpful notes:

#### Installing Souffle.
See the Souffle installation instructions [here](https://souffle-lang.github.io/install). If you don't have access to a Linux or Mac machine that can install Souffle (Souffle does not work on Windows), contact me and I will give you access to a machine that you can use.


## Problem statement

We will be working on exactly the same dataset and scenario as in A1. 
We will work on 3 external relations (EDBs in Datalog terminology): 
- `account(id:number, account_id:symbol, owner:number, balance:number)`
- `person(id:number, name:symbol, address:symbol, state:symbol, zipcode:symbol, email:symbol)`
- `transfer(src:number, dst:number, amount:number, transaction_id:symbol)`.
The tuples of these relations are provided in 3 csv files in the format Souffle expects under the `data` directory.

We will implement queries that are slightly different than the ones in A1.
The exact queries are written as comments about the `q1`-`q3` rules in the `a2-sol-template.dl` file. I provided some hints for
which parts of Souffle documentation to learn in the template file. The template file also contains some boilerplate 
code to load the records in the data files. I also suggest spending some time going through Souffle documentation
and [tutorials](https://souffle-lang.github.io/tutorial) to learn the system more.

